packages/ruby/README.md, before:

# Kreuzberg for Ruby

[![RubyGems](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/kreuzberg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/kreuzberg)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/kreuzberg)](https://crates.io/crates/kreuzberg)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/kreuzberg)](https://pypi.org/project/kreuzberg/)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/kreuzberg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/kreuzberg)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-kreuzberg.dev-blue)](https://kreuzberg.dev)

High-performance document intelligence for Ruby, powered by Rust.

Extract text, tables, images, and metadata from 30+ file formats including PDF, DOCX, PPTX, XLSX, images, and more.

> **🚀 Version 4.0.0 Release Candidate**
> This is a pre-release version. We invite you to test the library and [report any issues](https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg/issues) you encounter.

## Features

- **30+ File Formats**: PDF, DOCX, PPTX, XLSX, images, HTML, Markdown, XML, JSON, and more
- **OCR Support**: Built-in Tesseract OCR for scanned documents and images
- **High Performance**: Rust-powered extraction for native-level performance
- **Table Extraction**: Extract structured tables from documents
- **Language Detection**: Automatic language detection for extracted text
- **Text Chunking**: Split long documents into manageable chunks
- **Caching**: Built-in result caching for faster repeated extractions
- **Type-Safe**: Comprehensive typed configuration and result objects

## Requirements

- Ruby 3.2 or higher
- Rust toolchain (for building from source)

### Optional System Dependencies

- **Tesseract**: For OCR functionality
  - macOS: `brew install tesseract`
  - Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install tesseract-ocr`
  - Windows: Download from [GitHub](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract)

- **LibreOffice**: For legacy MS Office formats (.doc, .ppt)
  - macOS: `brew install libreoffice`
  - Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install libreoffice`

- **Pandoc**: For advanced document conversion
  - macOS: `brew install pandoc`
  - Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install pandoc`

## Installation

Add to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'kreuzberg'
```

Then run:

```bash
bundle install
```

Or install directly:

```bash
gem install kreuzberg
```

## Quick Start

### Basic Extraction

```ruby
require 'kreuzberg'

# Extract from a file
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("document.pdf")
puts result.content
puts "MIME type: #{result.mime_type}"
```

### With Configuration

```ruby
# Create configuration
config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(
  use_cache: true,
  force_ocr: false
)

result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("document.pdf", config: config)
```

### With OCR

```ruby
# Configure OCR
ocr_config = Kreuzberg::Config::OCR.new(
  backend: "tesseract",
  language: "eng",
  preprocessing: true
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(ocr: ocr_config)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("scanned.pdf", config: config)
```

### Extract from Bytes

```ruby
data = File.binread("document.pdf")
result = Kreuzberg.extract_bytes_sync(data, "application/pdf")
puts result.content
```

### Batch Processing

```ruby
paths = ["doc1.pdf", "doc2.docx", "doc3.xlsx"]
results = Kreuzberg.batch_extract_files_sync(paths)

results.each do |result|
  puts "Content: #{result.content[0..100]}"
  puts "MIME: #{result.mime_type}"
end
```

### Structured Results (Chunks & Images)

```ruby
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("long-report.pdf", config: {
  chunking: { max_chars: 750 },
  image_extraction: { extract_images: true }
})

result.chunks&.each do |chunk|
  puts "[#{chunk.chunk_index + 1}/#{chunk.total_chunks}] #{chunk.content[0..80]}"
end

result.images&.each do |image|
  File.binwrite("image-#{image.image_index}.#{image.format}", image.data)
  if image.ocr_result
    puts "Embedded OCR content: #{image.ocr_result.content[0..60]}"
  end
end
```

## Configuration

### Load From File

```ruby
config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.from_file("config.toml")
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("report.pdf", config: config)
```

### Extraction Configuration

```ruby
config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(
  use_cache: true,                      # Enable result caching
  enable_quality_processing: false,     # Enable text quality processing
  force_ocr: false                      # Force OCR even for digital PDFs
)
```

### OCR Configuration

```ruby
ocr = Kreuzberg::Config::OCR.new(
  backend: "tesseract",           # OCR backend (tesseract, easyocr, paddleocr)
  language: "eng",                # Language code (eng, deu, fra, etc.)
  tesseract_config: {
    psm: 6,
    enable_table_detection: true,
    preprocessing: Kreuzberg::Config::ImagePreprocessing.new(auto_rotate: true).to_h
  }
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(ocr: ocr)
```

### Chunking Configuration

```ruby
chunking = Kreuzberg::Config::Chunking.new(
  enabled: true,
  chunk_size: 1000,       # Characters per chunk
  chunk_overlap: 200,     # Overlap between chunks
  embedding: {
    model: { type: :preset, name: "balanced" },
    normalize: true
  }
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(chunking: chunking)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("long_document.pdf", config: config)

result.chunks.each do |chunk|
  puts "Chunk: #{chunk.content}"
  puts "Tokens: #{chunk.token_count}"
end
```

### HTML Conversion Options

```ruby
html_options = Kreuzberg::Config::HtmlOptions.new(
  heading_style: :atx_closed,
  wrap: true,
  wrap_width: 100,
  preprocessing: { enabled: true, preset: :standard }
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(html_options: html_options)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("page.html", config: config)
```

### Keyword Extraction

```ruby
keywords = Kreuzberg::Config::Keywords.new(
  algorithm: :yake,
  max_keywords: 8,
  min_score: 0.2,
  ngram_range: [1, 3]
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(keywords: keywords)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("research.pdf", config: config)
```

### Language Detection

```ruby
lang_detection = Kreuzberg::Config::LanguageDetection.new(
  enabled: true,
  min_confidence: 0.8,
  detect_multiple: true
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(language_detection: lang_detection)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("multilingual.pdf", config: config)

result.detected_languages&.each do |lang|
  puts "Language: #{lang.lang}, Confidence: #{lang.confidence}"
end
```

### PDF Options

```ruby
pdf_options = Kreuzberg::Config::PDF.new(
  extract_images: true,
  image_min_size: 10000,    # Minimum image size in bytes
  password: "secret"        # PDF password
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(pdf_options: pdf_options)
```

## Working with Results

```ruby
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("invoice.pdf")

# Access extracted text
puts result.content

# Access MIME type
puts result.mime_type

# Access metadata
puts result.metadata.inspect

# Access extracted tables
result.tables.each do |table|
  puts "Headers: #{table.headers.join(', ')}"
  table.rows.each do |row|
    puts row.join(', ')
  end
end

# Access text chunks and metadata
result.chunks&.each do |chunk|
  puts "Chunk #{chunk.chunk_index + 1}/#{chunk.total_chunks}"
  puts "Chars: #{chunk.char_start}-#{chunk.char_end}"
  puts "Embedding length: #{chunk.embedding&.length}"
end

# Access extracted images
result.images&.each do |image|
  File.binwrite("image-\#{image.image_index}.#{image.format}", image.data)
  puts "Image #{image.image_index} on page #{image.page_number}"
end

# Convert to hash
hash = result.to_h

# Convert to JSON
json = result.to_json
```

## CLI Usage

Kreuzberg provides a Ruby wrapper for the CLI:

```ruby
# Extract content
output = Kreuzberg::CLI.extract("document.pdf", output: "text")

# Detect MIME type
mime_type = Kreuzberg::CLI.detect("document.pdf")

# Get version
version = Kreuzberg::CLI.version
```

## API Server

Start an API server (requires kreuzberg CLI):

```ruby
Kreuzberg::APIProxy.run(port: 8000) do |server|
  # Server runs in background
  # Make HTTP requests to http://localhost:8000
end
```

## MCP Server

Start a Model Context Protocol server for Claude Desktop:

```ruby
server = Kreuzberg::MCPProxy::Server.new(transport: 'stdio')
server.start

# Use with Claude Desktop integration
```

## Cache Management

```ruby
# Get cache statistics
stats = Kreuzberg.cache_stats
puts "Entries: #{stats[:total_entries]}"
puts "Size: #{stats[:total_size_bytes]} bytes"

# Clear cache
Kreuzberg.clear_cache
```

## Error Handling

```ruby
begin
  result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("document.pdf")
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::ParsingError => e
  puts "Parsing failed: #{e.message}"
  puts "Context: #{e.context}"
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::OCRError => e
  puts "OCR failed: #{e.message}"
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::MissingDependencyError => e
  puts "Missing dependency: #{e.dependency}"
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::Error => e
  puts "Kreuzberg error: #{e.message}"
end
```

## Supported Formats

- **Documents**: PDF, DOCX, DOC, PPTX, PPT, ODT, ODP
- **Spreadsheets**: XLSX, XLS, ODS, CSV
- **Images**: PNG, JPEG, TIFF, BMP, GIF
- **Web**: HTML, MHTML, Markdown
- **Data**: JSON, YAML, TOML, XML
- **Email**: EML, MSG
- **Archives**: ZIP, TAR, 7Z
- **Text**: TXT, RTF, MD

## Performance

Kreuzberg's Rust core provides significant performance improvements:

- **PDF extraction**: 10-50x faster than pure Ruby solutions
- **Batch processing**: Parallel extraction with Tokio async runtime
- **Memory efficient**: Streaming parsers for large files
- **Caching**: Automatic result caching for repeated extractions

## Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg.git
cd kreuzberg/packages/ruby

# Install dependencies
bundle install

# Build the Rust extension
bundle exec rake compile

# Run tests
bundle exec rspec

# Run RuboCop
bundle exec rubocop
```

## License

MIT License. See [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## Links

- **Documentation**: https://docs.kreuzberg.dev
- **GitHub**: https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg
- **Issues**: https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg/issues

Commit message:

fix: resolve all critical CI/CD failures across language bindings
This comprehensive fix resolves 10 critical CI/CD failures identified across
all language bindings and workflows.

## Rust Core Fixes

- **tesseract_rs import**: Fixed incorrect crate name in doc comment
  (kreuzberg-tesseract/src/lib.rs:23)
- **pprof dependency**: Added Windows-specific conditional compilation with
  graceful error message (kreuzberg/src/bin/profile_extract.rs:18)
- **OCR extraction**: Added explicit recognize() call before text extraction
  to ensure OCR processing completes (kreuzberg/src/ocr/processor.rs)
- **Format metadata**: Fixed case sensitivity by converting format strings
  to uppercase (kreuzberg/src/extraction/image.rs:42)

## Node.js Bindings Fixes

- **Windows linker errors**: Added kreuzberg-ffi as dependency and rlib crate
  type to resolve 3 unresolved external symbols
- **ESM module loading**: Implemented loadNativeBinding() compatibility layer
  to support both ESM and CommonJS contexts

## Ruby Bindings Fixes

- **Cargo dependency**: Changed from crates.io version dependency to local
  path-based dependency using vendored crate approach
- **Workspace configuration**: Made Ruby native extension independent workspace
  to support gem packaging with vendored dependencies

## Python Bindings Fixes

- **OpenSSL headers**: Configured OPENSSL_DIR and PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment
  variables for Linux builds (.github/actions/setup-openssl/action.yml)

## Go Bindings Fixes

- **sccache compatibility**: Disabled sccache for Windows builds due to MinGW
  GCC detection issues (.github/workflows/ci-go.yaml)

## Java Bindings Fixes

- **Maven compiler**: Downgraded Java target from 25 to 23 for Maven compiler
  plugin compatibility (packages/java/pom.xml)
- **Format metadata**: Fixed by upstream Rust change

## C# Bindings Fixes

- **OCR extraction**: Fixed by upstream Rust change
- **Format metadata**: Fixed by upstream Rust change

packages/ruby/README.md, after:

# Kreuzberg for Ruby

[![RubyGems](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/kreuzberg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/kreuzberg)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/kreuzberg)](https://crates.io/crates/kreuzberg)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/kreuzberg)](https://pypi.org/project/kreuzberg/)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/kreuzberg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/kreuzberg)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-kreuzberg.dev-blue)](https://kreuzberg.dev)

High-performance document intelligence for Ruby, powered by Rust.

Extract text, tables, images, and metadata from 30+ file formats including PDF, DOCX, PPTX, XLSX, images, and more.

> **🚀 Version 4.0.0 Release Candidate**
> This is a pre-release version. We invite you to test the library and [report any issues](https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg/issues) you encounter.

## Features

- **30+ File Formats**: PDF, DOCX, PPTX, XLSX, images, HTML, Markdown, XML, JSON, and more
- **OCR Support**: Built-in Tesseract OCR for scanned documents and images
- **High Performance**: Rust-powered extraction for native-level performance
- **Table Extraction**: Extract structured tables from documents
- **Language Detection**: Automatic language detection for extracted text
- **Text Chunking**: Split long documents into manageable chunks
- **Caching**: Built-in result caching for faster repeated extractions
- **Type-Safe**: Comprehensive typed configuration and result objects

## Requirements

- Ruby 3.2 or higher
- Rust toolchain (for building from source)

### Optional System Dependencies

- **Tesseract**: For OCR functionality
  - macOS: `brew install tesseract`
  - Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install tesseract-ocr`
  - Windows: Download from [GitHub](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract)

- **LibreOffice**: For legacy MS Office formats (.doc, .ppt)
  - macOS: `brew install libreoffice`
  - Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install libreoffice`

- **Pandoc**: For advanced document conversion
  - macOS: `brew install pandoc`
  - Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install pandoc`

## Installation

Add to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'kreuzberg'
```

Then run:

```bash
bundle install
```

Or install directly:

```bash
gem install kreuzberg
```

## Quick Start

### Basic Extraction

```ruby
require 'kreuzberg'

# Extract from a file
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("document.pdf")
puts result.content
puts "MIME type: #{result.mime_type}"
```

### With Configuration

```ruby
# Create configuration
config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(
  use_cache: true,
  force_ocr: false
)

result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("document.pdf", config: config)
```

### With OCR

```ruby
# Configure OCR
ocr_config = Kreuzberg::Config::OCR.new(
  backend: "tesseract",
  language: "eng",
  preprocessing: true
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(ocr: ocr_config)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("scanned.pdf", config: config)
```

### Extract from Bytes

```ruby
data = File.binread("document.pdf")
result = Kreuzberg.extract_bytes_sync(data, "application/pdf")
puts result.content
```

### Batch Processing

```ruby
paths = ["doc1.pdf", "doc2.docx", "doc3.xlsx"]
results = Kreuzberg.batch_extract_files_sync(paths)

results.each do |result|
  puts "Content: #{result.content[0..100]}"
  puts "MIME: #{result.mime_type}"
end
```

### Structured Results (Chunks & Images)

```ruby
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("long-report.pdf", config: {
  chunking: { max_chars: 750 },
  image_extraction: { extract_images: true }
})

result.chunks&.each do |chunk|
  puts "[#{chunk.chunk_index + 1}/#{chunk.total_chunks}] #{chunk.content[0..80]}"
end

result.images&.each do |image|
  File.binwrite("image-#{image.image_index}.#{image.format}", image.data)
  if image.ocr_result
    puts "Embedded OCR content: #{image.ocr_result.content[0..60]}"
  end
end
```

## Configuration

### Load From File

```ruby
config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.from_file("config.toml")
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("report.pdf", config: config)
```

### Extraction Configuration

```ruby
config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(
  use_cache: true,                      # Enable result caching
  enable_quality_processing: false,     # Enable text quality processing
  force_ocr: false                      # Force OCR even for digital PDFs
)
```

### OCR Configuration

```ruby
ocr = Kreuzberg::Config::OCR.new(
  backend: "tesseract",           # OCR backend (tesseract, easyocr, paddleocr)
  language: "eng",                # Language code (eng, deu, fra, etc.)
  tesseract_config: {
    psm: 6,
    enable_table_detection: true,
    preprocessing: Kreuzberg::Config::ImagePreprocessing.new(auto_rotate: true).to_h
  }
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(ocr: ocr)
```

### Chunking Configuration

```ruby
chunking = Kreuzberg::Config::Chunking.new(
  enabled: true,
  chunk_size: 1000,       # Characters per chunk
  chunk_overlap: 200,     # Overlap between chunks
  embedding: {
    model: { type: :preset, name: "balanced" },
    normalize: true
  }
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(chunking: chunking)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("long_document.pdf", config: config)

result.chunks.each do |chunk|
  puts "Chunk: #{chunk.content}"
  puts "Tokens: #{chunk.token_count}"
end
```

### HTML Conversion Options

```ruby
html_options = Kreuzberg::Config::HtmlOptions.new(
  heading_style: :atx_closed,
  wrap: true,
  wrap_width: 100,
  preprocessing: { enabled: true, preset: :standard }
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(html_options: html_options)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("page.html", config: config)
```

### Keyword Extraction

```ruby
keywords = Kreuzberg::Config::Keywords.new(
  algorithm: :yake,
  max_keywords: 8,
  min_score: 0.2,
  ngram_range: [1, 3]
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(keywords: keywords)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("research.pdf", config: config)
```

### Language Detection

```ruby
lang_detection = Kreuzberg::Config::LanguageDetection.new(
  enabled: true,
  min_confidence: 0.8,
  detect_multiple: true
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(language_detection: lang_detection)
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("multilingual.pdf", config: config)

result.detected_languages&.each do |lang|
  puts "Language: #{lang.lang}, Confidence: #{lang.confidence}"
end
```

### PDF Options

```ruby
pdf_options = Kreuzberg::Config::PDF.new(
  extract_images: true,
  image_min_size: 10000,    # Minimum image size in bytes
  password: "secret"        # PDF password
)

config = Kreuzberg::Config::Extraction.new(pdf_options: pdf_options)
```

## Working with Results

```ruby
result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("invoice.pdf")

# Access extracted text
puts result.content

# Access MIME type
puts result.mime_type

# Access metadata
puts result.metadata.inspect

# Access extracted tables
result.tables.each do |table|
  puts "Headers: #{table.headers.join(', ')}"
  table.rows.each do |row|
    puts row.join(', ')
  end
end

# Access text chunks and metadata
result.chunks&.each do |chunk|
  puts "Chunk #{chunk.chunk_index + 1}/#{chunk.total_chunks}"
  puts "Chars: #{chunk.char_start}-#{chunk.char_end}"
  puts "Embedding length: #{chunk.embedding&.length}"
end

# Access extracted images
result.images&.each do |image|
  File.binwrite("image-\#{image.image_index}.#{image.format}", image.data)
  puts "Image #{image.image_index} on page #{image.page_number}"
end

# Convert to hash
hash = result.to_h

# Convert to JSON
json = result.to_json
```

## CLI Usage

Kreuzberg provides a Ruby wrapper for the CLI:

```ruby
# Extract content
output = Kreuzberg::CLI.extract("document.pdf", output: "text")

# Detect MIME type
mime_type = Kreuzberg::CLI.detect("document.pdf")

# Get version
version = Kreuzberg::CLI.version
```

## API Server

Start an API server (requires kreuzberg CLI):

```ruby
Kreuzberg::APIProxy.run(port: 8000) do |server|
  # Server runs in background
  # Make HTTP requests to http://localhost:8000
end
```

## MCP Server

Start a Model Context Protocol server for Claude Desktop:

```ruby
server = Kreuzberg::MCPProxy::Server.new(transport: 'stdio')
server.start

# Use with Claude Desktop integration
```

## Cache Management

```ruby
# Get cache statistics
stats = Kreuzberg.cache_stats
puts "Entries: #{stats[:total_entries]}"
puts "Size: #{stats[:total_size_bytes]} bytes"

# Clear cache
Kreuzberg.clear_cache
```

## Error Handling

```ruby
begin
  result = Kreuzberg.extract_file_sync("document.pdf")
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::ParsingError => e
  puts "Parsing failed: #{e.message}"
  puts "Context: #{e.context}"
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::OCRError => e
  puts "OCR failed: #{e.message}"
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::MissingDependencyError => e
  puts "Missing dependency: #{e.dependency}"
rescue Kreuzberg::Errors::Error => e
  puts "Kreuzberg error: #{e.message}"
end
```

## Supported Formats

- **Documents**: PDF, DOCX, DOC, PPTX, PPT, ODT, ODP
- **Spreadsheets**: XLSX, XLS, ODS, CSV
- **Images**: PNG, JPEG, TIFF, BMP, GIF
- **Web**: HTML, MHTML, Markdown
- **Data**: JSON, YAML, TOML, XML
- **Email**: EML, MSG
- **Archives**: ZIP, TAR, 7Z
- **Text**: TXT, RTF, MD

## Performance

Kreuzberg's Rust core provides significant performance improvements:

- **PDF extraction**: 10-50x faster than pure Ruby solutions
- **Batch processing**: Parallel extraction with Tokio async runtime
- **Memory efficient**: Streaming parsers for large files
- **Caching**: Automatic result caching for repeated extractions

## Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg.git
cd kreuzberg/packages/ruby

# Install dependencies
bundle install

# Set up vendor symlink for local development (required for building)
ln -sfn ../../crates/kreuzberg vendor/kreuzberg

# Build the Rust extension
bundle exec rake compile

# Run tests
bundle exec rspec

# Run RuboCop
bundle exec rubocop
```

**Note**: The Ruby bindings use a vendored copy of the core `kreuzberg` Rust crate. For local development, create a symlink at `vendor/kreuzberg` pointing to `../../crates/kreuzberg`. In CI and gem packaging, the actual vendored files are copied to this location.

## License

MIT License. See [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## Links

- **Documentation**: https://docs.kreuzberg.dev
- **GitHub**: https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg
- **Issues**: https://github.com/Goldziher/kreuzberg/issues
